Kinder Surprise
Catherine Weng

Artist's Statement
James Bridle's Essay "Something is wrong on the Internet" details the weird and creepy ways that videos appealing to children have evolved. Mass production of repetitive computer-generated content that kids seem to find amusing wins out over quality, vetted content from reputable sources. This leads children to come into contact with very questionable subject matter in the name of entertainment. Among these videos, a popular trope is unboxing videos. Bridle refers specifically to the Surprise Egg Craze. "Surprise Eggs videos depict, often at excruciating length, the process of unwrapping Kinder and other egg toys." Another article describes the popularity of such videos by talking about a specific popular Youtuber by the name of Blu Toys Surprise Brinquedos & Juegos. "Since 2010 he seems to have accrued 3.7 million subscribers and just under 6 billion views for a kid-friendly channel entirely devoted to opening surprise eggs and unboxing toys." Comparisons to celebrity videos are made with the amount of viewers his channel has reached, describing just how popular and far-reaching these innocuous toy videos are among the target audience- children.
My project inspiration is the 'unboxing' of kinder surprises. Even if the toys are cheap and tiny it's always fun seeing what surprise you get. The chocolate egg is just a bonus. I'm still tempted to pick up a kinder egg whenever I see one for the toy inside, even though I know whatever is inside will likely be utterly disappointing junk. But the hope of something good keeps the temptation alive. In my project, the player can either click the egg to open it or commend it with "Open the egg" after which it will shake and a toy comes out. The toy is draggable and can be taken out to be "played" with on the page. The player can then press a button that says "Try again" or speak it as a voice command to acquire another surprise toy.
Kinder eggs are also incomplete without mentioning that they are illegal in the USA. The US has banned "all candies embedded with "non-nutritive objects," such as toys" for fear of choking hazards. In this case, a tiny plastic toy is replaced with something more sister. Like the weird, creepy videos, the surprise also has the potential to be something decidedly non child-friendly. But it can regardless be placed in the same area as the toys and interacted with in the same way. It also has a kind of addictive casino-like feature where the player can try again endlessly. As it runs on an infinite loop, the player can accrue as many objects as they wish, and arrange them on the page at will. Whether the player wishes to collect them all, or build a pile of minions, they could get bored after a few seconds or keep trying for new toys infinitely. The variety of objects available to 'collect' allows for some pretty amusing or shocking scenarios to be made. One can also interact with the objects through the dragging, simulating movement.
